### AI Use Cases in Travel, Tourism and Hospitality Industry

### Use Cases (Illustrative)

- Recommendation engines - for online travel booking providers to offer tailored suggestions based on your recent searches and bookings
- Flight fare and hotel price forecasting - Flight fares and hotel prices are ever-changing and vary greatly depending on the provider. No one has time to track all those changes manually. Thus, smart tools which monitor and send out timely alerts with hot deals are currently in high demand in the travel industry.
- Intelligent travel assistants - instant messaging platforms are widely adopted by some prominent brands as a great way to reach out to the clients and build better customer relations.
- Optimized disruption management - aims at resolving actual problems a traveler might face on his/her way to a destination point
- Customer support - Not unlike personal travel assistants and intelligent disruption management, airlines can utilize the power of artificial intelligence to streamline the customer support process. Especially now, when almost half of all consumers agree that the speed of response to an inquiry is the most important component of successful customer service.
  - Combining virtual assistants with human ones, not only can help you grow your brand loyalty, but also optimize your business performance. For example, if a passenger’s luggage is lost, reporting the loss or even conducting an automated search through a virtual assistant might significantly speed up the process of finding it. This approach eliminates the bureaucracy and paperwork, which is a great way to rehabilitate yourself in terms of customer experience. Moreover, offering a free bonus for any inconvenience caused is an even better way to retain your customers.
  - Based on the experiment conducted by Qantas to test the efficiency of their travel disruption system, what takes an experienced professional about 15-20 minutes can be done by an algorithm in under one minute
- Tailored offers for MVCs (Most Valued Customers)
- UX personalization in airlines - According to the McKinsey 2016 report, travel companies and airlines, in particular, have 23x greater likelihood of customer acquisition, 6x customer retention, and 19x larger likelihood of profitability if they are data-driven.
  - Kind of a collect, detect and act approach when we have business relevance data
- Sentiment analysis in social media - According to Amadeus, 90 percent of US travelers with a smartphone share their experiences and photos in social media and reviews services. TripAdvisor has 390 million unique visitors and 435 million reviews. Every minute, about 280 traveler reviews are submitted to the site.
  - This is a large pool of valuable data that brands can analyze to improve their services. While conventional statistical analysis of reviews subsets is possible, the computing power and underlying machine learning techniques allow for analyzing all brand-related reviews.
  - Sentiment analysis is the branch of supervised learning that aims at exploring textual data to define and rate emotional and factual qualities of it. For instance, Google Cloud Natural Language API is an off-the-shelf application programming interface that can be tweaked and integrated with analytical tools to provide real-time analysis of all brand-related reviews.
- Dynamic pricing in the hospitality industry - Dynamic pricing is based on the idea of changing room prices depending on various market circumstances.
  - Dynamic pricing entails the establishment of efficient yield management based on understanding relevant customer and market data. While online travel agencies (OTAs) dominate the room booking sphere, setting data-driven dynamic pricing allows hotels to drive more direct room bookings bypassing intermediaries
- Fraud detection - According to Juniper Research report, airlines and travel industries suffer from eCommerce fraud the most. They lose billions of dollars every year having to refund stolen money to customers. Payment fraud is one of the most popular types of scams in this industry that entails using a stolen credit card for booking flights or accommodation. Another popular type of fraud is a friendly fraud, when a customer pays for a purchase, and then claims that the card was stolen, demanding a chargeback
- Targeted offers to address travel disruptions
  - Disruptions in travel, such as flights cancellation, can offer unexpected opportunities for hotel owners. After the worst winter of 2013, when 500 flights in the US were canceled every day
  - The hotel used public datasets on flight cancellations and weather information. The data were gathered via an API and processed through a conditional algorithm. With this data, hotel chain predicted canceled flights and targeted their advertising to travelers in areas that were likely to be affected. The brand`s paid mobile search campaign offered potential guests searching for last-minute booking ads with information about rooms and distance from an airport to an inn.
- In-stay experience - AI solutions can assist a traveler not just en route to a destination, but also during a hotel stay. With voice-enabled virtual assistants in rooms, guests can make themselves more comfortable. For example, they can set a temperature in a room, adjust the light, switch TV on and off. With facial recognition, hotels can speed up check-ins, and make stay more secure.
